How to play Monopoly

Game objective: To become the richest player by buying, renting, and selling properties.

Each player is given $1500 divided as:
2 $500's, 2 $100's, 2 $50's, 6 $20's, 5 $10's, 5 $5's, and 5 $1's.
All remaining money and other equipment go to the Bank.

1.	Decide one player as the banker – Banker is in charge of all properties
2.	Each player must choose a token
3.	The player who rolls the highest number plays first
4.	Every time a player’s token lands on GO they are given $200
5.	If you land on a spot with a with a property, you may buy for price on the spot
6.	When another player lands on your property you may collect rent
7.	If you land on ‘chance or community’ you must pick a card
8.	Go to jail
(1) Your token lands on the space marked "Go to Jail",
(2) You draw a card marked "Go to Jail" or
(3) You throw doubles three times in succession.
9.	To get out of jail
(1) Throwing doubles on any of your next three turns,
(2) Using the "Get Out of Jail Free Card"
(3) Purchasing the "Get Out of Jail Free Card" from another player and playing it.
(4) Paying a fine of $50 before you roll the dice on either of your next two turns. If you do not throw doubles by your third turn, you must pay the $50 fine.
10.	Players can trade money or property over a mutual decision at any time however cannot borrow each other money or sell properties with houses on them. It must be sold back to the bank first.
11.	If a person owes more money than they own they can mortgage their property
12.	If a player owes more than they have including properties, then they are declared bankrupt.

Income Tax:  If player lands on this spot they have to pay 10% of their worth or $200 to the bank.

Houses - When a player owns all the properties in a colour-group they may buy houses from the Bank and place on the properties (1 house max per property). They owner also collect double rent on the properties with coloured group. You can also sell the property back to the bank.

Hotels - When a player has four houses on each property of a complete colour-group, they may buy a hotel from the Bank and erect it on any property of the colour-group. They return the four houses from that property to the Bank and pay the price for the hotel as shown on the Title Deed card. Only one hotel may be erected on any one property.

Mortgage property – If a player is short of money and has rent to pay, they can mortgage the property to the bank in return for money. No rent can be collected when a property is mortgaged and to mortgage the house 10% interest must be paid.
Miscellaneous:
•	Money can be loaned by bank and only by mortgaging property. Players cannot loan each other money.
•	The spaces on the board correspond to properties that the players can buy. These properties can eventually be improved with the addition of houses and/or hotels.
•	When the Bank has no houses to sell, players wishing to build must wait for some player to return or sell their houses to the Bank before building.
•	If there are a limited number of houses and hotels available and two or more players wish to buy more than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be sold at auction to the highest bidder.
